**Version 0.1**

Eduba is a protocol for publishing linked articles peer-to-peer on the [Holepunch][holepunch] platform.

## Publishers

All content in Eduba is created by publishers. Each publisher uses a separate Hyperdrive and is identified by the Hyperdrive's ID. All published content is stored in the Hyperdrive associated with the publisher.

## Entities in the Publisher Hyperdrive

### Entity IDs

All entity IDs must match the pattern `[0-9a-zA-Z_-]+`

### Publisher

Each publisher Hyperdrive has one JSON file to store publisher properties at `/eduba/db/publishers/default.json`.

```json
{
  "createdAt": "ISO_TIMESTAMP",
  "article": "<ARTICLE_ID>"
}
```

### Article

An article has JSON properties and text (saved separately from the JSON). When rendering the article, the client should render the article's title above the article text. The article

#### Article JSON

An article's properties are stored in the Hyperdrive at `/eduba/db/articles/<ARTICLE_ID>.json`. The `ext` is the content-type of the article and indicates the syntax or language of the article content.

```json
{
  "createdAt": "ISO_TIMESTAMP",
  "title": "Article Title",
  "ext": "md",
  "tags": []
}
```

#### Content Types

An article's `ext` property specifies the extension of the content-type of the article text, such as .md for Markdown or .html for HTML. The client looks at the content-type to know how to render it or whether to display an unsupported content-type message.

- **Markdown** - Must follow the [CommonMark Spec][commonMarkSpec], which allows for embedded HTML, including web components.
- **HTML**

#### Embedded Web Components

Web component syntax is used for all functionality beyond rendered text. The reasons for using web-components for article features are:

- Standard format for contained functionality
- Easily ignored if the client doesn't support the feature
- Clients may be able to share the code
- The `prop=value` format of web component attributes is easy for users to read and understand
- Allows for using attributes to configure behavior
- More powerful than using native html (or markdown equivalent) elements
- Clients can enhance the features of a web component beyond the minimum standard set by the protocol
- Allows for fetching a JSON file to add context or configure behavior

#### Share Article Link

Users can share articles with each other by generating a link that all clients must accept. The shared article link is `<PUBLISHER_ID>/articles/<ARTICLE_ID>`.

#### Embedded Article Links

Articles link to other articles using the `eduba-article` web component. The label should default to the article title if label is not provided.

`<eduba-article publisher="PUBLISHER_ID" article="<ARTICLE_ID>" label="Link Text"></eduba-article>`.

#### Article Content

An article's text content is stored in the publisher Hyperdrive at `/eduba/text/articles/<ARTICLE_ID>.<EXT>` with utf-8 encoding. Clients will render the content according to the `ext` property of the article JSON.

### Image

Images are embedded in an article using the `eduba-image` web component.

`<eduba-image publisher="PUBLISHER_ID" image="<IMAGE_ID>"></eduba-image>`.

#### Image JSON

Image JSON is stored in the publisher Hyperdrive at `/eduba/db/images/<IMAGE_ID>.json`.

```json
{
  "createdAt": "ISO_TIMESTAMP",
  "ext": "png",
  "alt": "string",
  "tags": []
}
```

#### Image Files

Image files are stored in the publisher Hyperdrive at `/eduba/files/images/<IMAGE_ID>.<EXT>` with binary encoding.

### Upload

Uploads are files that can be downloaded to the user's machine. Other features, such as images, may also support downloading to the user's machine, but for any type of file, uploads can be used.

Uploads are embedded in an article using the `eduba-upload` web component.

`<eduba-upload publisher="PUBLISHER_ID" upload="<UPLOAD_ID>"></eduba-upload>`.

#### Upload JSON

Upload JSON is stored in the publisher Hyperdrive at `/eduba/db/uploads/<UPLOAD_ID>.json`. The `fileName` property should be the suggested file name when the user saves the file.

```json
{
  "createdAt": "ISO_TIMESTAMP",
  "ext": "iso",
  "fileName": "File name suggested on download"
}
```

#### Upload Files

Upload files are stored in the publisher Hyperdrive at `/eduba/files/uploads/<UPLOAD_ID>.<EXT>` with binary encoding. Using an extension for upload files is optional.

## Users

Users can browse articles on a client without logging in. Before the user is able to create a publisher or save any data, such as bookmarks or subscriptions, the user must sign in.

### Signing In

To avoid having to persist private keys when backing up data, Eduba uses a user's password to generate deterministic keys for the data structures created for a user. The protocol must ensure uniqueness of passwords to ensure that the data structures have unique IDs. Eduba uses the BIP 39 standard of mneumonic phrases for sign in. The user should also be able to sign in with a hardware wallet that follows the BIP 39 standard.

A user signs in by signing the message "Eduba Sign In" with either a hardware wallet or a software wallet that uses a mneumonic phrase. The specifics of signing a message depend on the blockchain that the user chose, but the result must be a string. That string is hashed with sha256 to get the primary-key that is passed to the corestore for creating a session for the signed in user.

### User Data

Each logged in user is assigned one Hyperbee for storing user settings and other user data. Data such as bookmarks, subscriptions, and an index of the user's own publishers are stored here. Once the user has signed in, and the client has created a new corestore session with a primary key derived from the user's credentials, then the client must create the user's Hyperbee by using the string "user" as the "name" option when getting the core from the corestore.

#### Bookmarks

A bookmark can be a pointer to an article, or it can represent a folder for the purpose of organizing bookmarks. Bookmarks are stored on the user's Hyperbee at `/eduba/db/bookmarks/<BOOKMARK_ID>.json`. The bookmark schema allows for rendering the bookmarks into a nested folder structure.

```json
{
  "type": "bookmark or folder",
  "title": "string",
  "parent": "ID of parent folder",
  "href": "<PUBLISHER_ID>/articles/<ARTICLE_ID>"
}
```

### Subscriptions

A user can subscribe to a publisher. Subscriptions are stored on the user's Hyperbee at `/eduba/db/subscriptions/<PUBLISHER_ID>.json`. Clients should semi-frequently check for updates from these publishers and display a notification if new content is available.

```json
{
  "createdAt": "ISO_TIMESTAMP"
}
```

### Publisher Settings

Configuration settings for publishers created by the user are stored on the user's Hyperbee at `/eduba/db/publishers/<PUBLISHER_ID>.json`. The `pinned` property tells the client whether or not the publisher should be replicated on the Hyperswarm. The `coreName` property is the `name` used to create the publisher in the corestore.

```json
{
  "coreName": "publisher0",
  "pinned": true
}
```

[commonMarkSpec]: https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/
[holepunch]: https://holepunch.to
